601 Turkey Iraq water What is the effect of Turkish river control projects on Iraqi water resources? A relevant document will deal specifically with water issues between Turkey and Iraq.  Other political and economic concerns between the two countries (e.g. the Kurds or water to Syria, Israel and Lebanon) are not relevant.
602 Czech, Slovak sovereignty Retrieve information regarding the process by which the Czech and Slovak republics of Czechoslovakia established separate sovereign countries. A relevant document will provide specific dates and details regarding the separation movement.  Documents relating to normal activities of the separate nations, both internal and external are not relevant.
603 Tobacco cigarette lawsuit Retrieve documents regarding U.S. lawsuits against the tobacco industry for causing health problems and/or death from cigarettes. Relevant documents must contain who, where and why details, and must be about a specific suit or suits.  Specific documents are relevant regardless of the outcome of the suit.  Documents concerning lawsuits about fraud, lack of warning, and nicotine 'spiking' are all relevant.
604 Lyme disease arthritis What evidence is there to link tick-borne Lyme disease with arthritis? Documents providing evidence to support or refute the connection between Lyme disease and arthritis are relevant.  Documents discussing Lyme disease and inflammatory joint disorder are also relevant.
605 Great Britain health care What are the pros and cons of Great Britain's universal health care system? Documents that discuss recommendations for change or list criticisms of the current system are relevant.  Documents about an individual's experience with the health care system in Great Britain are irrelevant unless the document also contains a specific recommendation or criticism.
606 leg traps ban Find documents that discuss banning leg traps used to capture animals. Both 'leg traps' and 'steel-jawed traps' are relevant. Documents describing related prohibitions, such as banning the sale of furs when the animals are caught using leg traps, are also relevant.
607 human genetic code What progress is being made in the effort to map and sequence the human genetic code? Documents must discuss specific progress in mapping the human genome.  Documents that simply describe applications of the research, such as using DNA in criminal cases, using the genetic code to treat disease, or creating genetically engineered organisms are irrelevant.
608 taxing social security Find articles that discuss the pros and cons of taxing U.S. social security benefits. Only documents that discuss income tax on social security benefits in the U.S. are relevant.  Documents that discuss the social security tax itself or other countries' taxation are irrelevant.
609 per capita alcohol consumption Find documents that discuss per capita consumption of alcohol by  political entity---country, state, province, etc. Documents that provide per capita figures for specific beverages such as beer, wine, or spirits are relevant.  However, to be relevant documents must provide specific figures on alcohol consumption: documents that simply discuss trends without providing specific figures are not relevant.  Documents with figures for world per capita consumption are also relevant.
610 minimum wage adverse impact Find claims made by U.S. small businesses regarding the adverse impact on their businesses of raising the minimum wage. A relevant document will include a specific reason for opposition to raising the minimum wage by U.S. small businesses.
611 Kurds Germany violence What violent activities have Kurds, or members of the Workers Party of Kurdistan (PKK), carried out in Germany? Relevant documents contain information on the types of violent, destructive, or terroristic activities perpetrated by Kurds or members of the Workers Party of Kurdistan (PKK) in Germany. Information on whom or what is targeted by these kinds of acts is also relevant.  Relevant activities include: killing or wounding of individuals; destruction or burning of property; and rioting. Relevant activities must be both attributed to Kurds or the PKK and occur in Germany.  Violence by Kurds or the PKK against other Kurds or PKK members is relevant if it occurs in Germany, though self immolation is irrelevant.  Peaceful demonstrations in Germany are irrelevant.
612 Tibet protesters What has been the outcome for the pro-independence protesters in Tibet who were arrested by Chinese authorities? Documents containing information on the sentencing, releasing and/or treatment of arrested protesters are relevant.  Only arrests for anti-Chinese/pro-independence (for Tibet) are relevant; criminal arrests are irrelevant.
613 Berlin wall disposal How were pieces of the Berlin wall disposed of after their removal? Relevant documents contain specific instances of the fate of pieces of the Berlin wall.  Example uses such as selling or taking pieces as souvenirs or using pieces in monuments are relevant.  However, the simple fact of the wall's removal is not relevant, nor are schemes and plans that were not implemented.
614 Flavr Savr tomato Find information about the first genetically modified food product to go on the market, Flavr Savr (also Flavor Saver) Tomato developed by Calgene. Documents about genetically engineered food in general are not relevant; relevant documents must include specifics regarding the Flavr Savr tomato.
615 timber exports Asia What is the extent of U.S. raw timber exports to Asia, and what effect do these exports have on the U.S. lumber industry? Documents containing information about economic or environmental concerns related to the export of timber to Asia are relevant. Documents must specifically address exports to Asia, rather than the timber industry in general, to be relevant.
616 Volkswagen Mexico What is the history and extent of Volkswagen production in Mexico? Relevant documents must contain information specific to  Volkswagen production in Mexico.
617 Russia Cuba economy What effect has the reduction of Russian support had on the Cuban economy? Relevant documents must contain information specific to how the reduction of Russian support has affected the Cuban economy. Documents referring to the state of the Cuban economy but not mentioning Russia are irrelevant, as are documents describing joint Russo-Cuban projects.
618 Ayatollah Khomeini death Find documents that describe the death of Iranian President Ayatollah Khomeini and the ramifications of his death. Relevant documents must contain substantive information regarding the death of Khomeini; incidental mentions of his death are not relevant. Documents about the movement Khomeini led when alive are not relevant.
619 Winnie Mandela scandal What part did Winnie Mandela herself play in the kidnapping, beating and murder scandal in South Africa in December 1988 through January 1989? Documents must contain some mention of what Mandela's personal involvement may have been to be relevant.  Documents about her conviction on charges stemming from the scandal are relevant, though her protestations of innocence are irrelevant.
620 France nuclear testing How has France responded to protests against its nuclear testing in the South Pacific? A document containing information regarding any type of protest by any one is relevant as long as France's response is also included in the document.
621 women ordained Church of England What are the arguments for and against Great Britain's approval of women being ordained as Church of England priests? Documents primarily about voting on the matter by church officials and the British parliament are relevant.
622 price fixing Identify companies or corporations that have been accused or indicted of price fixing including the product or type of product involved. Relevant documents must contain both the company and the product involved. Documents about price fixing by the stock market are not relevant.
623 toxic chemical weapon Gather any information that mentions ricin, sarin, soman, or anthrax as a toxic chemical used as a weapon. To be relevant, a document must pertain to the use of toxic chemicals as weapons.
624 SDI Star Wars What are the pros and cons of developing the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) also known as "Star Wars"? A relevant document must contain information regarding the technical aspects of the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI).  Documents containing simple statements that SDI is part of the U.S. defense strategy, or that discuss funding or arms reduction treaties related to SDI but do not discuss the technical aspects are irrelevant.  Documents containing statements by the administration that SDI capabilities had been oversold are relevant.
625 arrests bombing WTC Identify documents that provide information on the arrest and/or conviction of the bombers of the World Trade Center (WTC) in February 1993. A relevant document must contain information about an arrest or conviction related to the bombing.  Simple claims of involvement are not relevant.
626 human stampede Find reports of human stampedes that have resulted in 20 or more deaths. Documents that mention people being killed by animal stampedes are not relevant.  Relevant documents could mention human stampedes in any public place such as a sporting event, bar, restaurant or entertainment event.
627 Russian food crisis What steps are being taken by the U.S. to help Russia solve the food crisis in Russia? A relevant document must contain information specific to U.S. involvement (actual or planned) to alleviate the Russian food crisis. Documents describing Russia's internal food shortage debates, statistics depicting the severity of the shortage, or other countries' involvement are not relevant.
628 U.S. invasion of Panama What justification was used by the U.S. government to invade Panama, and why did some oppose the invasion? Relevant documents must include specific reference to the U.S. government's justification for the invasion. Documents simply noting support for or criticism of the invasion by other governments are not relevant.
629 abortion clinic attack What is the incidence of violent attacks on abortion clinics and the doctors and staff of the clinics by anti-abortionists? Documents describing bombings and arson attacks on an abortion clinic, or other violent, destructive actions, are relevant.  Violent attacks on doctors and staff, including shootings, are also relevant. Reports of attempted attacks are relevant.   Reports of non-violent activities such as trespassing, picketing, etc. are irrelevant.
630 Gulf War Syndrome Retrieve documents containing information about the symptoms of individuals suffering from 'Gulf War Syndrome' as a result of serving in the Gulf War. Documents regarding law suits that claim causes of illness from service in the Gulf War are relevant, as are reports of cases resulting from contact with an ill Gulf War veteran.  'Dessert Storm Syndrome' is a synonym for the condition and is considered relevant.
631 Mandela South Africa President Find documents relating to the election of Nelson Mandela as president of the Republic of South Africa. Documents must include specific information about Mandela becoming president of South Africa to be relevant.
632 southeast Asia tin mining What are the major tin mining countries in southeast Asia? Relevant document contain information about tin mining in southeast Asia. Countries considered to be in southeast Asia include China, Malaysia, Indonesia, Viet Nam, Burma, Thailand and Laos.
633 Welsh devolution What is the history of the Welsh devolution movement? Relevant documents contain information about some aspect of the Welsh devolution movement.
634 L-tryptophan deaths How many deaths are attributed to having taken tainted L-tryptophan dietary supplements? A relevant document will describe a specific case of death attributed to tainted L=tryptophan or will give figures regarding total number of deaths.  Reports of illness caused by the supplement that did not result in death are not relevant.
635 doctor assisted suicides What are the arguments for and against doctor assisted suicide in the U.S.? A relevant document must contain a viewpoint regarding doctor assisted suicide to be relevant.  Reports describing actual doctor assisted suicides are not relevant unless the document also presents a pro or con argument.
636 jury duty exemptions Find documents that discuss reasons why people may be exempted from serving on a jury. A relevant document must include a specific reason that provides an exemption or list an occupation that causes exemption from jury duty.
637 human growth hormone (HGH) What are the pros and cons of adults using human growth hormone (HGH)? A relevant document must discuss a specific application of human growth hormone in adults.  Documents about using growth hormone to help short children are irrelevant.
638 wrongful convictions Find documents that discuss freed prisoners who have been wrongfully convicted based on faulty forensic evidence, poor police work, or false testimony. Documents about political prisoners who were freed because of incompetent prosecutions are relevant.   However, documents that discuss prisoners who are pardoned or released on bond when their convictions are overturned are not relevant, nor are documents about prisoners freed to make a political statement or prisoners freed for an exchange.
639 consumer on-line shopping What factors contributed to the growth of consumer on-line shopping? A relevant document will describe a factor that has contributed to the increase use of on-line shopping by consumers.  Documents containing statistical data supporting a growth factor are also relevant.
640 maternity leave policies What are the maternity leave policies of various governments? Relevant documents will contain specific details about a legally-mandated maternity leave policy.  Current or passed legislation is relevant, but proposed or in-process legislation is not. Vetoes of bills for maternity leave are irrelevant.  Legislation that is passed, but not yet enacted (i.e. to take effect at a specific time in future) is relevant.  Issues of cost to businesses and/or government are irrelevant.  Statements to the effect of what benefits are not provided are relevant.
641 Valdez wildlife marine life What was the impact of the Exxon Valdez oil spill on the marine life and wildlife of the area? Relevant documents must have some specific detail, such as types of animals, the kinds of problems found, and outcome (such as number of animals saved or dead).
642 Tiananmen Square protesters What happened to protesters arrested in connection with the Tiananmen Square demonstrations in Beijing in the spring of 1989? Documents must be attributed to the Tiananmen Square demonstrations to be relevant: documents about protests elsewhere in response to Tiananmen Square are not relevant.  Specific names, etc. are not necessary for a document to be relevant.
643 salmon dams Pacific northwest What harm have power dams in the Pacific northwest caused to salmon fisheries? To be relevant, a document must include at least one negative impact of dams on the salmon population in the U.S. Pacific northwest.
644 exotic animals import Identify documents that discuss exotic species of animals that are imported into the U.S. or U.K. Documents about importing birds are relevant.  Documents about importing insects or pests are not relevant.  Discussion of exotic animal diseases is not relevant.
645 software piracy Find documents that discuss the financial impact of software piracy upon the software-producing industry. Relevant documents must specifically include software piracy: documents that lump the piracy of video, music, software, etc. together are not relevant.
646 food stamps increase Find documents that discuss an increase in the number of people receiving food stamp benefits. Documents that discuss changes in the law allowing more eligible food stamp recipients are relevant.  Documents that imply that a certain group of people, such as immigrants, will be eligible for food stamps are also relevant.
647 windmill electricity Has the use of windmill technology to generate electricity been economically productive? A relevant document will contain a comparison of the costs of generating electricity through the use of windmills to other more conventional means of generation.
648 family leave law Identify documents that discuss details of a family leave law, such as how long, compensation, if any, for what reason allowed, etc. A relevant document must contain some detail about a family leave law to be relevant.  The mere mention of the existence of such a law is not relevant.
649 computer viruses How do computers get infected by computer viruses? A relevant document will discuss a means by which a computer can become a host to a computer virus.
650 tax evasion indicted Identify individuals or corporations that have been indicted on charges of tax evasion of more than two million dollars in the U.S. or U.K. A relevant document will contain details about large-scale tax evasion.  Documents about people who lost in excess of two million dollars as a result of doing business with an organization indicted for tax fraud are relevant.
651 U.S. ethnic population How is the ethnic make-up of the U.S. population changing? Documents must indicate a shift in the ethnic make-up of the U.S. population.
652 OIC Balkans 1990s What was the OIC's involvement in the Balkans in 1990-94? Relevant documents describe the role the OIC played in the Balkan region.  Also relevant are documents reflecting the Balkans' players (nations, groups) positions pro or con regarding OIC involvement.
653 ETA Basque terrorism Find documents that describe the activities of ETA, the Basque terrorist organization, in Spain. Non-ETA politicians' comments/speculation regarding the organization are not relevant, nor are descriptions of ETA activities outside of Spain.
654 same-sex schools What are the advantages and disadvantages of same-sex schools? Any discussion of the relative merits of same-sex schooling is relevant.
655 ADD diagnosis treatment How is Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD) diagnosed and treated in young children? Relevant documents specifically address diagnosis and/or treatment of ADD.  Simple definitions and descriptions of ADD are not relevant. Documents that discuss studies that could lead to treatment are relevant.
656 lead poisoning children How are young children being protected against lead poisoning from paint and water pipes? Documents describing the extent of the problem, including suits against manufacturers and product recalls, are relevant. Descriptions of future plans for lead poisoning abatement projects are also relevant.  Worker problems with lead are not relevant.  Other poison hazards for children are not relevant.
657 school prayer banned Has prayer in U.S. schools been banned completely? Relevant documents discuss circumstances under which some schools continue to permit prayer and court rulings on the same.  Prayer in non-public schools is relevant, but prayer in schools outside the U.S. is not relevant.
658 teenage pregnancy Find documents that discuss teenage pregnancy in the United States: the birth rate for teenage mothers, causes and results of teenage pregnancies, and steps taken to reduce the number of teenage pregnancies. Relevant documents will discuss teenage pregnancy in the United States. Also relevant is information on teenage abortions.
659 cruise health safety What standards do cruise ships use for health and safety maintenance? Relevant documents refer to health and safety practices and standards for recreational cruise ships.  Not relevant are standards for small pleasure craft or commercial freight ships, tankers, etc.  Documents referring to a specific ship's problems are not relevant.
660 whale watching California Find information about whale watching off the coast of California. Relevant documents make mention of one or more Californian site or guide services for watching whales in their habitat.
661 melanoma treatment causes What are the causes and treatments for melanoma? Relevant documents describe causes, diagnosis, and/or treatment of melanoma.  Articles on research being conducted that could lead to diagnosis or treatment are also relevant.  Articles on other diseases, including other skin cancers, are not relevant.
662 telemarketer protection How can consumers protect against telemarketers? Relevant are documents describing legislation, regulations, or strategies that help protect consumers against either telemarketing scams or unwanted interruptions by telemarketers.  Not relevant are documents describing telemarketing as a business.  General complaints about telemarketing are not relevant.  "900" number calls are not relevant since they are made by the consumer.
663 Agent Orange exposure What were the health effects of Vietnam veterans' exposure to Agent Orange? Only U.S. veterans' outcomes are relevant.  Information on studies without results included are not relevant.
664 American Indian Museum What are the plans for a National Museum of the American Indian? Relevant documents will describe the intended location, the types, and extent of the collections to be housed, and any relationships with similar museums elsewhere.
665 poverty Africa sub-Sahara How extensive is poverty in sub-Saharan Africa? A relevant document must address the extent of poverty in sub-Saharan Africa. Items solely about hunger/famine conditions or debt status are not relevant. Mortality rates around the world compared to sub-Sahara Africa are not relevant.
666 Thatcher resignation impact Find documents that discuss the impact Prime Minister Margaret Thatchers' resignation may have on U.S. and U.K. relations. A relevant document must specifically discuss the impact of Thatcher's resignation on relations between the U.S. and U.K.
667 unmarried-partner households Find documents that discuss the increasing trend toward creation of unmarried-partner households in the U.S. Reference to any laws pertaining to such households as well as same sex households are relevant.
668 poverty, disease What is the relationship between poverty and disease? Documents that do not link poverty to diseases directly but mention a link between poverty and health care are relevant. Documents that simply mention poverty and disease but do not draw a connection are not relevant.
669 Islamic Revolution What were the causes for the Islamic Revolution relative to relations with the U.S.? Relevant documents must discuss the reasons that relations between the Islamic world and the United States have deteriorated.
670 U.S. elections apathy Why is there such apathy in U.S. elections? Relevant documents must provide reasons for poor turnout at U.S. elections.
671 Salvation Army benefits Find documents that cite the specific benefits the Salvation Army provides those in need. Relevant documents must cite specific work by the Salvation Army to help the needy.
672 NRA membership profile Find documents that detail the membership profile of the National Rifle Association (NRA). Relevant documents provide details such as the age, race, or personality of NRA members.  Documents that merely state the NRA position on current issues are not relevant.
673 Soviet withdrawal Afghanistan What factors led to the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan? Documents must provide a reason for the withdrawal; documents that simply report the fact of the withdrawal are not relevant.
674 Greenpeace prosecuted Has Greenpeace been prosecuted or its members arrested for any of its actions? Relevant documents concern arrest and/or prosecution of members of Greenpeace or the organization itself for actions it has taken.  Suits brought by Greenpeace against others are not relevant.
675 Olympics training swimming Find information regarding training for Olympic swim meets. Relevant documents will include discussion about training conditions, sites and requirements. Stories about individual competitors or about the Olympics in general are irrelevant.
676 poppy cultivation Find information on poppy cultivation and export worldwide. Relevant documents contain information specific to the cultivation of poppy for exportation, including historical reports on the development of the poppy "industry".  Documents regarding legal issues or programs to stop cultivation are not relevant.  Incidental mention of/reference to cultivation, export, smuggling of poppies or their products in documents with other emphasis are not relevant. Editorial comment and eradication data are not relevant.  Applications of U.S. companies to import poppy (for legal purposes) are not relevant.
677 Leaning Tower of Pisa What efforts are being made to stabilize the Leaning Tower of Pisa, and how successful have the efforts been? Relevant documents provide discussions of the current condition of the tower, describe reinforcement measures taken, and/or provide measurements reflecting change in the tower.
678 joint custody impact Find information on joint/shared custody's impact on children. Both economic and emotional impacts on children of divorce are relevant.  Impact on parents is not relevant unless directly connected to the children involved.
679 opening adoption records Find documents that discuss the U.S. debate about the opening of sealed adoption records to adoptees. Only documents referring to court-sanctioned adoptions are relevant.  Mere descriptions of an individual's experience are not relevant.
680 immigrants Spanish school Find documents that discuss how the use of Spanish in U.S. schools has improved the lives of Mexican immigrants. Documents must discuss how the use of Spanish in school improves the lives of Spanish-speaking immigrants.  Documents that simply mention the use of Spanish are not relevant.
681 wind power location Where are wind power installations located? Documents must provide the location of specific wind power installations.  Descriptions of wind power installations, applications to construct installations, and arguments  for/against wind power are all not relevant.
682 adult immigrants English What is being done to teach English to recently admitted adult immigrants? Descriptions of any program to teach English to adult immigrants are relevant, as are proposals to establish such programs. Testing programs and programs targeting only children are not relevant.
683 Czechoslovakia breakup Find information on the breakup of Czechoslovakia into the Czech Republic and Slovakia and its social and political impact on the two countries' people. Editorials are not relevant.  Mention of economic impact and difficulties are not relevant.  Pre-breakup machinations between the two parties/parts are relevant.
684 part-time benefits What businesses or government entities give medical or other benefits to part-time workers? Documents that mention benefits given specifically to part-time workers are relevant.  Not relevant are benefit plans not currently in effect, nor benefits given to full-time workers.
685 Oscar winner selection How are Oscar winners selected? Relevant documents describe the process by which Oscar winners are determined, including the methods by which  potential awardees are selected and nominated, the qualifications needed to become an eligible voter, and the number of  eligible voters.
686 Argentina pegging dollar What are the negative impacts of Argentina's policy of pegging their peso to the U.S. dollar? Documents must identify problems that have been created due to the pegging of the peso to the dollar. Documents that mention pegging but do not identify problems in the Argentine economy are not relevant.
687 Northern Ireland industry What businesses and industries form the basis of the economy of Northern Ireland? Relevant documents name at least one business or industry that is a major employer in Northern Ireland.  Documents about unemployment or industry closing are not relevant.
688 non-U.S. media bias What bias exists in the media of countries other than the U.S.? Allegations or evidence of bias in the media of countries other than the U.S. are relevant. External criticism of U.S. media, i.e., bias allegations against U.S. media by external persons, is not relevant.
689 family-planning aid To which countries does the U.S. provide aid to support family planning, and for which countries has the U.S. refused or limited support? Relevant documents indicate where U.S. aid supports family planning or where such aid has been denied. Discussions of why aid for family planning has been refused are also relevant.  Documents that mention U.S. aid to countries, but not specifically for family planning are not relevant. Descriptions of funds for family planning in the U.S. itself are not relevant.
690 college education advantage Find documents which describe an advantage in hiring potential or increased income for graduates of U.S. colleges. Relevant documents cite some advantage of a college education for job opportunities.  Documents citing better opportunities for non-college vocational-training is not relevant.
691 clear-cutting forests What are the objections to the practice of "clear-cutting"? Relevant documents discuss the reasons for resistance to the practice of "clear-cutting."  Discusion of cutting old forests is not associated with clear-cutting and is not relevant.
692 prostate cancer detection treatment Find information on prostate cancer detection and treatment. Different kinds of treatment are relevant, but only when tied to prostate cancer.  The affliction or treatment of a particular (well-known) individual is not relevant, nor is treatment or detection of benign prostate enlargement (BHP).
693 newspapers electronic media What has been the effect of the electronic media on the newspaper industry? Relevant documents must explicitly attribute effects to the electronic media: information about declining readership is irrelevant unless it attributes the cause to the electronic media.
694 compost pile How do you make a compost pile? Relevant documents must reflect methods or procedures used to create a compost heap (e.g. dimensions, size, depth, contents or care).
695 white collar crime sentence What is the usual sentence for those convicted of white collar crimes? To be relevant, a document must indicate the actual sentence imposed for a white collar crime.
696 safety plastic surgery Find documents that discuss the safety of or the hazards of cosmetic plastic surgery. Relevant document must refer to a safety issue regarding an elective cosmetic procedure performed for enhancement of an individual's body image.
697 air traffic controller What are working conditions and pay for U.S. air traffic controllers? Relevant documents tell something about working conditions or pay for American controllers.  Documents about foreign controllers or an individual controller are not relevant.
698 literacy rates Africa What are literacy rates in African countries? A relevant document will contain information about the literacy rate in an African country. General education levels that do not specifically include literacy rates are not relevant.
699 term limits What are the pros and cons of term limits? Relevant documents reflect an opinion on the value of term limits with accompanying reason(s).  Documents that cite the status of term limit legislation or opinions on the issue sans reasons for the opinion are not relevant.
700 gasoline tax U.S. What are the arguments for and against an increase in gasoline taxes in the U.S.? Relevant documents present reasons for or against raising gasoline taxes in the U.S.  Documents discussing rises or decreases in the price of gasoline are not relevant.
